Before I came into the truth, my life was difficult. We were many women with one husband. My child had died.
I got the truth through one older sister.
She helped me understand what happens to people that day, including my son.
I started attending the book study and came into the truth.
During the course of the study, I learned that to really serve Jehovah, you cannot be part of a polygamous marriage.
So I told him, staying in this situation is not in line with Jehovah's way.
I have to leave. You already had a wife when I came to your house.
So he said, how can you talk about leaving when you are pregnant with my child?
The whole family needs to be involved in this. My family said, you have to call a village meeting so they called everyone together.
Everybody was upset with me. They said, but no one has done this before.
You are the first. I said, it is not bad. I want to serve God. They gossiped a lot about me.
They said, you are leaving, but you come back. You can't make it on your own. Just forget about her.
So when I was leaving that day, I couldn't stop crying.
Since my family shan't me, keeping in mind Joshua 24-15, I said, me and my children will serve Jehovah.
And Jehovah will be with me wherever I go.
I only packed a few personal items that I had. I left everything that was in the house. I left everything with them.
I was affected by the war because while I was running away, one of my children got sick in my hands and died on the road.
I had a basket for fishing that I bought. When fishing, I would sell some.
Whatever I did in sell, we ate. Sometimes I would ask my daughter, we are so poor Zogo, don't you want to go back to the village? She said, mama, I can't go back. I want to serve Jehovah too.
Jehovah blessed me. My daughter Zogbo got baptized and later served at Bethel.
Jehovah also blessed me when I got married. Our son is now an unbublished publisher and my husband is an elder.
First piece of three one helped me to improve my conduct. It helped my first husband to serve Jehovah too.
I have no regrets. I am now happy with my decision. I told Jehovah, thank you. That is why no matter what it takes, I don't want to miss meetings. I always want to attend meetings with my brothers and sisters so that we can encourage one another.
I accepted the truth before my husband. His family members opposed me because I helped my husband to become a witness.
That is why they never came to our aid when he was sick. My children and I took care of him on our own until his death.
The chief asked me to perform some funeral rites. I explained that I could not perform those rites, so the chief banished me from the town along with my family.
So I informed the elders and they consulted the branch. The case was reported to the police.
One Tuesday morning, we had a lot of noise coming from town, but did not know why. Soon the noise got louder, coming towards us.
As a commotion reached us, my sister-in-law approached first, beating a tray with wood.
She then told me to my face. Agnes, you have caused disgrace. We have never heard anything like this before.
Disgrace. Soon thereafter, we had a knock-knock. Two policemen had arrived. I couldn't flee from the situation because my fellow worshipers would face the same issue in the future.
Therefore, I decided to stay and face it until the case was resolved.
When our case was called up, my family members and I were present. I was allowed to tell my vision of the matter, which I did.
The inspector warned the chief seriously, reminding him that this matter is about an individual's human rights.
The chief responded, okay, then she should not exchange greetings with me until my death.
I thanked the officers and the chief for resolving the matter.
What helped me to stand firm during the persecution was regular Bible reading, regularly attending Christian meetings and completely relying on Jehovah.
There are not many in the congregation who stay in town, but we have brothers from surrounding villages.
Who, when they come to the meetings in town, come visit to encourage me after the meetings.
Jehovah said that they will certainly fight against you, but they will not prevail against you, for I am with you.
Since Jehovah was on my side, when they fought against me, they did not prevail. With Jehovah's help, they did not prevail.